# SquareTest

* What area(s) did you focus on when working on the project? The architecture and data flow? The UI? Something else? Please note what you think best exhibits your skills and areas of expertise.

The architecture and UI the aspects I was most focused on. These are my strongest skills, and the areas I like to show off the most. I like to use MVVM since it's the recommended architecture pattern by Google; it makes the codebase more modular and testable. In addition, it defines strict roles that each portion of the architecture is responsible for: Models to store the data that is shown to the user, Views to allow the user to interact with the data, and the ViewModel to delegate and pass data between the View and the Models. This is also important from a lifecycle standpoint since the ViewModel in the architecture components is directly scoped to the Activity/Fragment's lifecycle that hosts the ViewModel object via the `by viewModels()` lazy delegate. This way, network calls and any other heavy tasks can be safely handled on the background thread by the ViewModel via coroutines. The result will then be automatically executed on the main thread once the coroutine is finished running. When it comes to UI, I've fully embraced `ConstraintLayout` because it allows complex views to be created in a flat hierarchy. Gone are the days of nesting a `LinearLayout` within a `LinearLayout`. I also made sure to use data binding and view binding to directly bind the model to the view in XML.

Copied-in code or copied-in dependencies. We’re obviously looking to evaluate your skills as an engineer! As such, please tell us which code you’ve copied into your project so we can distinguish between code written for this project, versus code written at another time, or by others (if you’re just referencing a dependency via a dependency manager, no need to call it out here).

I enjoy using certain sealed classes such as State and AwaitResult in projects I work on. I have written them in order to more seamlessly navigate different states, such as when a response is loading, was successfully called or if there was an error. This way, these states can be easily converted to concrete classes which then can be placed into a `when` statement. There, they are smartly casted to the corresponding objects. This simplifies debugging by more clearly showing the `Success` block, the `Error` block, and how the breakpoint ended up in either of the blocks. There's also certain extensions such as `AlertDialog.Builder.withCancelButton` and `Response<T>.awaitResult()`. Finally, to ensure equal spacing in the `RecyclerView`, there's the `EqualSpacingItemDecorator` class.

Tablet / phone focus. If you focused on one or the other of tablet or phone, please let us know which one.

I focused on phone since I'm aware that Android tablets aren't as popular these days.
